hi I'm Koki Lipinski with swim dup
masters and I'm here to teach you today
about getting hip with your hips in
freestyle and backstroke we really want
to get our hips involved we want to
control the action of our hips but they
do play a role and it's a role that I
think has gotten not enough attention in
freestyle we want to be able to get over
on the right hip as the right hand
enters the water we should be slightly
riding that hip if the left hand is
entering the water on it want to be
slightly riding the top of that hip what
I don't want to be doing is reaching
across my body riding the right hip
while the left hand is entering as you
can see my body is completely cockeyed
and I'm not going to be able to cut
through the water so cutting through the
water is about taking that whole body
experience to get those hips where you
want them you've got to control your
core you have to be able to pull in that
belly button to your spine is one way
that somebody puts it and reach long you
want to swim very tall in your stroke
what you want to stop from happening is
the twisting motion or rotating motion
of your hips so I want to think about
reaching my hip the top of this hip bone
I want to take that and reach that to
the other end of the pool without
letting my belly button slide to the
side control your hips on freestyle
you're going to have a much better
faster freestyle now in backstroke the
same thing plays a role in a slightly
different way I want to think about
taking that top of that hip bone and I
want to drive the hip drives the hand
entry so I want to drive that hip over
to drop that hand in I want to make sure
I'm not reaching back I want to let the
hand just drop in naturally and that's
what controlling the hip action does
like freestyle if I twist too far I'm
over rotating what's going to happen my
catch is going to be very deep my turn
over is going to be slow because it
takes a long time to come out of the
deep catch so I want a shallow catch in
backstroke
controlled by the hip action in my body
to sum up it's vitally important to get
good hips in your pre-cell and your
backstroke a core is what leads to good
hips and good hips leads to a good
stroke keep your core engaged control
the action of your hips and you will
have a better freestyle and backstroke
I'm Kokila Pinsky and do sweat the small
stuff in your swimming